.. _v0.2.0:

v0.2.0
------

This release focuses on introducing capabilities enabling the orchestration of 
one-to-many heterogeneous simulations.

Breaking Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- The blueprint schema introduced in :ref:`v0.0.1-alpha` is deprecated.
- Deprecate the use of the user environment file 

New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Add ``SimulationRunner`` entrypoint for blueprint execution.
- Add public orchestration models in ``cstar.orchestration.models``.
- Add ``Workplan`` and ``Blueprint`` orchestration in ``cstar.orchestration.orchestration``.
- Add ``cstar`` CLI for command-line execution of ``Workplan``'s and ``Blueprint``'s
- Add optional dependencies when launching jobs with ``SLURM``.

Security Fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N/A

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Fix logging failure when file directories do not exist. 
- Fix incorrect number of tracers in vertical mixing configuration.
- Fix failure occurring in worker post-run handler.
- Fix/modify how the "active allocation" is identified.
- Fix env var expansion failures due to lmod and environment loading ordering.
- Fix missing partitioning information in ``ROMSInputDataset``.
- Fix simulation failures due to file collisions.

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Overhaul documentation with a focus on ``Blueprint`` orchestration.
- Improved error logging and message de-duplication.
- Improved developer experience; additional docstrings, increased typehint coverage, expanded linting rules.
- Centralized calculation of various shared strings and paths.
- Parallelized ``ncjoin`` operations.

Miscellaneous
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Mitigate various linter warnings. 
- Pin roms-tools to 3.3.0.

---

For more details, please refer to the `v0.2.0 commit history`_.

.. _v0.2.0 commit history: https://github.com/CWorthy-ocean/C-Star/compare/v0.1.0...v0.2.0
